[MUSIC]
At the core of HTML is the HTML tag.
So it's pretty important to understand
what HTML tag consists of, and
how to properly, syntactically properly,
code up an HTML tag.
Usually HTML tags have an opening and
a closing tag.
And they surround some content.
In this case, the tag p, which stands for
paragraph, is communicating
to us that the content in the gray
area should be treated as a paragraph.
Now technically speaking,
p by itself is called an element.
And together with the angle
brackets it's called a tag.
But the truth is the term is used so
interchangeably, that whenever somebody
refers to an element p, or a tag p, they
really could mean one and the same thing.
Now most HTML tags have a closing tag
that matches its opening tag but not all.
For example, the br and hr tag,
br stands for line break,
and hr stands for horizontal rule,
only have an opening tag.
They don't have a closing tag at all.
Now every HTML element can
have predefined attributes.
So we will learn some of the most common
ones as we progress in the course, but
here's what you need to know
about tag attributes in general.
Attribute is a name value pair
that is kind of a meta data about
the element itself that
it's being applied to.
So in this example, we are assigning
myId as the value of the id attribute.
Each attribute has its own rules for
the meaning of its value.
So for example, id attribute,
being assigned as an example,
has to be unique within the scope
of the entire HTML document.
In other words, no other element of any
kind in the webpage is allowed to have its
id attribute equal to the string myID.
If there's another element
with the same value for
id that would mean that
the webpage contains invalid HTML
which can potentially break some style
lingo, even functionality of the page.
Now let me go over some of
the basic spacing rules.
No space is allowed to exist between
the opening bracket and the tag name.
And likewise, space is not allowed
between the opening bracket and
the foreword slash of the closing tag.
However, you must have at least one
space between the tag itself and any
of its attributes, and space is allowed
everywhere else and is simply ignored.
So if you have extra space after
the p element in the opening tag, or
if you have extra space between
the equal sign of the attribute name,
attribute value, or you have other spaces,
even return characters, all of that
is completely ignored by the browser.
One more rule, attributes can only
be specified on the opening tag, so
you can't specify an attribute
on the closing tag.
Now let's talk about the value
of attributes for a minute.
In HTML5, enclosing the value of
the attribute in quotes is technically,
actually not required
in all circumstances.
But never the less, it's best
practice to always surround the value
of the attribute in either single or
double quotes.
It doesn't matter whether you
use single or double quotes.
They really are equivalent in HTML.
A more interesting case arises when
the value of the attribute
itself contains quotes.
So the actual value has
quotes as part of its value.
In this type of situation,
the only thing you have to watch out for
is making sure you close the quote
in opposite order of opening them.
So if the last quote was a single quote,
it must be closed first.
Which quotes you start with
doesn't make any difference.
You could start with double quotes,
as we have in the example here, or
you could start with single quotes.
You could also nest these as many times
as you want as long as you close them,
obviously in the proper order, but
in practice it's kind of very rare
that you have to have more
than two levels of quotes.
Any more than that, and your code
just becomes messy and hard to read.
Now if you've dealt with previous
versions of HTML, especially XHTML,
you might be familiar with
the idea of a self-closing tag.
A self-closing tag is basically
an XML type of shorthand notation for
a tag that happens to not
to contain any content.
For example, if we wanted to have
a placeholder in our HTML document for
some other content that we'll dynamically
perhaps insert at some later point.
That would be one example
of when we need to have
an HTML tag that has no
content to begin with.
However in HTML5,
the tag is a little bit more semantic.
So if the HTML5 tag is capable,
meaning it can possibly ever have
some content, it is illegal for
that tag to be self closing,
even if there is no content at the moment.
So instead, you have to provide and
opening and
the closing tags without any space
in-between them to signify and
to communicate the lack of content
as surrounded by this tag.
So in summary,
we went over the anatomy of HTML tag.
The opening, the closing tags,
the fact that it can attributes
describing what the tag itself is.
Remember that you can use double and
single quotes interchangeably.
Just make sure if there's actual
quotes in the value of an attribute,
you have to interchange them in
the same order that you opened them.
You have to all close them
in the opposite order.
And we also went over how to specify a tag
without any content inside HTML5, for
which the rules are a little bit different
than for the previous versions of HTML.
Next, we're going to talk about how to
create the basic HTML document structure.